Welcome to WWDC and Network File Systems.
Glad to have you all here today.
My name is Rusty,
and I'll be your host and
part-time demo monkey today.
Hopefully, that'll all go well.
So this session is really geared towards
both admins and developers alike.
So we're going to be going
into what's new in our network
file systems for Leopard.
Start off with an overview.
Then we're going to get into
some more of the detail and
drill down some of the features.
We'll have the engineers
responsible for those features
come up and present to you.
And then we'll follow up with
some good general information.
So, before we get into the Q&A session,
I noticed that there were a
lot of you who had gone to the
Network Home Directory's brown
bag and got shut out of that.
So hopefully we can kind of take some
of those questions at the end of that.
So what's new?
Today we have AFP as our
primary network file system.
We recommend this for use whether
it's network home directories,
personal file sharing,
or workgroup serving.
This is really what we promote to
provide the best performance and
capabilities across the board.
We also provide NFS and SMB,
but that's not really the focus
for Tiger and for Mac OS X.
Moving forward, we want to change that.
We want to make a big major shift
and provide much better support for
SMB and NFS so that you have the
freedom to choose which is really
best for your situation for your
network or for your applications.
But how do we get there from here?
So let's take a look at pretty much
why we're really favoring AFP today.
First of all,
it provides the highest performance
of our network file systems.
It's got great copy performance.
It's really favored by
creative professionals in
their large file use and so on.
It's also secure.
It provides Kerbero
security for authentication.
It's also secure.
It provides Kerbero
security for authentication.
It's also a mobile file system.
What we mean by that for
mobility is that it can survive
sleep and wake transitions,
network changes,
and it provides reconnect capabilities.
Of course, it has support,
native support, for all of the great
Mac OS X features like ACLs,
extended attributes, and of course,
support for applications
through file manager APIs.
SMB is not quite up to par
with AFP in a couple of areas.
It's not providing the same level
of performance that we require.
It's not a mobile file system,
and it doesn't have support for extended
attributes or the top applications
through the file manager APIs.
NFS is so much similar.
It doesn't have the same performance
and doesn't have any security
at all in today's networks,
and is lacking ACL, extended attribute,
and Carbon file manager support natively.
But so in Leopard,
we want to really to change that,
and especially with SMB.
We want to make SMB a real
first-class citizen as a part of
a network file system in Leopard.
It improves the performance.
It already has the security that we need,
adding mobility.
It's got the ACL support already,
but we're going to, to that,
add support for extended attributes and
all the top applications through native
support through file manager APIs.
Similar with NFS,
we're going to go and improve
its performance and add
security to NFS with Kerbero.
ACLs, extended attributes,
and file manager support,
that needs to wait for NFS version 4,
and that'll be coming after Leopard.
So let's take a look at
kind of where we are,
the progress that we've made so far,
starting with the copy performance.
One of the benchmarks that we do is
a finer copy performance benchmark,
because that's people's main interface
to the file systems for Mac OS X.
We're measuring throughput
in megabytes per second,
and we're going to compare AFP, SMB,
and NFS on Mac OS X and compare that
to XBee Performance running SMB,
their native network file system.
And the setup for this
is a core Duo iMac,
although the Mac Mini makes a
really great test machine as well.
Measuring over gigabit Ethernet,
and we're going from a cold start,
meaning this is not a
cached file transfer.
We're not reading just from memory.
It's exercising the whole machine.
And we're looking at
a large file transfer,
and on the Windows side,
we've got a measure that's running
under boot camp on the same machine.
So let's start with Tiger GM.
How did we compare against XP?
You can see our scale
here is going to go XP,
SMB, NFS, and so on,
and throughput in megabytes per second.
So we're really looking at the top
end of this would be saturating what
the disk can do on that machine.
So XP turns out a real
favorable performance.
It's almost over 250 megabits per second,
so that's a quarter of a
gigabit ethernet all by itself.
SMB came in a little bit less
at 29 megabytes per second.
NFS was quite low for the finder copy,
although in our CP and command line
performance it does much better.
AFP performance was nearly
saturated in the disks,
getting the maximum
throughput from that machine.
So we made some improvements in
the releases leading up to 10.4.7.
We've really,
we've started to work on this and
to deliver with the Intel machines,
we wanted to bring that out
in the software updates.
And so today, we've got better than
XP performance with RSMB and
nearly double the NFS performance.
And we didn't break AFP.
That was good.
So beyond 10.4.7, we're looking at,
for Leopard, really, you know,
Vista's coming on the scene,
so we need to exceed what
Vista's doing across the board,
not just with AFP and SMB,
and to really try and saturate
the network or disk performance
with all the protocols.
So in the in-copy performance,
there was a number of things
that we learned in tuning things
up that I really want to share,
especially with the
developers in the audience.
So optimizing performance,
really for network protocols,
minimizing the number of
transactions you make.
A lot of times when we first
take a look at a new application,
you find that it's really leaning on
stat or the get catalog info calls
a lot to find out what's happening
with the files that it's dealing with.
And a lot, in many cases,
there are a number of redundant calls
that even if with caching we can't absorb
all that and maintain good performance.
A very good tool for finding out how your
application is performing in this area
is to use fsusage on the command line.
And it'll show all of the file system
transactions and the time that they take.
Each one of those transactions that
goes out on the wire incurs latency.
And that latency,
even on gigabit networks,
will slow down saving document
performance or copy performance.
And if you're looking at wireless,
which is increasingly important,
or transfers over the wide area internet,
it's very, very noticeable.
The second way to beat the latency
game is to maximize concurrency.
And in some applications,
it's possible to factor the problem
so that you've got multiple threads.
So even if you do have to make
a large number of transactions,
they can be going in parallel.
And especially with the servers that
we have today that have multiple disks,
they can handle that and turn
around and beat the latency
that you get over the network.
And finally, increasing the buffer sizes,
especially in bulk transfer of data.
There's a good call that you can
use in the file system to find
what is the right buffer size.
You don't have to guess in the
application what might be good.
The file systems will report
that to you through StataFS.
The StataFS FIO size
reports back the optimal,
you know, minimum block size of transfer
unit for that file system.
So what about AFP?
We're looking at making a lot
of improvements in SMB and NFS,
but AFP, it's still number one and still
the one that I know a lot of
the admins are depending on.
And so, as you heard,
we're introducing Spotlight
searching over AFP.
In the seed that you have today,
you can look in there,
and you'll see a new
servers or the volume,
any mounted volume.
And you can search that.
And quickly,
even faster than the search that
we had with Spotlight in Tiger,
find information that's on the disk,
any disk, on your network.
So that's Spotlight Searching.
It's available for AFP in the seed.
It works with both personal file
sharing and Mac OS X Server.
And it's coming to SMB and Leopard.
AFP scalability,
that's always one of the number one
issues that I think we feel from
customers and in terms of inquiry.
I'm sure a lot of the people that
were at the network home directory
brown bag trying to attend that
were interested in AFP scalability.
There's been a lot of activities
on the bulletin boards and
the websites this year,
so much so that I had an
alternate title for this slide.
AFP, it ain't so bad.
I know Nigel posted a really good
tuning article on AFP548.com,
and I would encourage everyone to take
a look at that and pick up on some
of the tips that he's provided there,
because they're all very good.
Some of them were so good that
we're actually making them part
of 10.4.7 Universal Edition.
We've added new defaults to AFP Server,
so it's now defaulting to 200 threads.
And on the client side,
we've increased the
WAN quantum size to 32K.
So even over slower links,
it's transferring larger
blocks of data at a time.
One of the ways that we measure
AFP scalability in our testing is
we use a test called AFP Load Test.
And that it approximates
a home directory workload,
which is really a mix of operations
heavy on the metadata side,
browsing, and file transfer mixed in.
And it looks somewhat like this.
We started doing these measurements
back in the Panther timeframe,
in 10.3 GM.
Looking at with a dual G5 XServe,
less than a thousand operations
per second in that test.
But as we were moving
forward and developing Tiger,
we know that with Tiger coming,
the Tiger client has a much higher
demand for file system access,
whether it's spotlight, mail,
a large number of new activities
going on in the system.
So we started delivering
some of the updates,
improvements in efficiency
through that time,
so that by the 1039, by this benchmark,
we were at four times the level
that we shipped in Panther GM.
Some further efficiency
improvements came with Tiger GM,
so we're up to five times there.
So now we've got looking at
great new hardware coming out,
and we want to be able
to support that as well.
And we've made some estimates
testing with the Mac Pros,
with the Universal 1047,
and we're close to 17 times
Panther performance on the Dual X or G5.
But we're still, even with that,
we're leaving something on the table.
And we need to go beyond efficiency
improvements and introduce
some finer grain locking,
so that we can really take
advantage of the quad cores that
are available in that hardware.
And our goal is to get to 20X performance
when we ship in Leopard on that platform.
So AFP scalability,
just to summarize that,
improvements in efficiency,
finer grain locking,
and reducing the client workload
whenever we can to improve the number
of clients that we can support in
home directory servers especially.
So to wrap up,
coming online with secure NFS in Leopard,
that puts us one of our major
milestones on the path to NFS version 4.
We're going to completely overhaul the
automounter and replace it with AutoFS.
So there won't be a
single line of code left.
Promote SMB to a first-class
citizen on the platform.
Give it all the features
that we have in AFP.
And of course,
continue to improve performance and
scalability on the platform and provide
spotlight searching for network volumes.
Now I'd like to introduce
to you Brent Callaghan,
who will come up and
talk about secure NFS.
I talk about insecure NFS,
that's the NFS we have
now today in Tiger.
Just to explain about
what insecure NFS means,
let's look at an NFS transaction
where the client and the server are
quite friendly towards each other,
they trust each other.
And each NFS request there's
a thing called the credential
and the header where the client
explains to the server who it is,
and the server just
trusts that information.
The client can really invent
anything it likes to go in there.
And that's causing kind
of a bit of a problem.
It's all right in your friendly network,
but in a more hostile network that's
really not going to work at all.
So fortunately secure NFS can
fit into an NFS authentication
framework that already exists.
We're just not making very good use of it
with our current use of the credential.
There's also a thing called the verifier
that comes back from the server and
this allows the server to authenticate.
It's self to the client.
You never quite know when
you're talking to an NFS server
just who that server really is.
You're sending your valuable
data to that server.
Is that the server you were talking to
yesterday or was it some server that
just popped up just to take your data?
You don't really know.
So fortunately this framework lets us
use other kinds of security and this
is where we can just plug in Kerberos.
So with Kerberos authentication,
the client and the server do not
start off on a nice friendly basis.
They do not trust each other.
They are hostile towards each other.
This is where the
Kerberos server comes in.
Both the client and the server
know and trust the Kerberos server.
It's like their mutual friend.
So they don't trust each other but
they do trust the Kerberos server.
The Kerberos server keeps
all of their keys on it,
although the keys never
actually go across the network.
Using the Kerberos server,
the client and the server can
negotiate a secure session.
So part of the session is a session
key that the client and the server
can use to digitally sign the
credential and the verifier.
So this is really pretty secure.
So looking a little more
closely at Kerberos NFS,
first of all, a super user no longer
has any super powers.
So because you can become super
user on the client does not mean
that you can become any user
and access their home directory.
You can't do that anymore.
The only way you can really get
to somebody's home directory is
if you know their password and you
can get their Kerberos credential.
So that's really good.
The next thing is we're encrypting or
we're digitally signing the verifier
that comes back from the server.
So the server not only trusts the client,
but the client can now trust that
it's talking to the right server.
So that's important as well.
Another thing that we get with
Kerberos authentication is because
we no longer send the UID and
the GID across the wire anymore,
we actually use the Kerberos
principal name that comes when
we set up this Kerberos server.
So Kerberos is a very useful way
to get into the Kerberos context.
And the server just maps
this principal name.
It looks something like an email address.
Maps this to the user's UID and
from that it generates the
groups that the user is in.
So that means if you're at home and
you're user 501 on your kid's Mac and
you mount your home directory from work,
you will not be user 501.
You'll be the user that the server
sees you when you log in at work.
So that's quite nice.
Finally, we're not particularly
new to Kerberos NFS.
This is already quite widely
supported in the industry.
So you can get this today, Linux 2.6,
NetApp servers have it, EMC, Solaris,
they all support Kerberos on NFS.
So this will slot right in there.
So how do you turn it on on the server?
So mostly what it comes down to is
a new security option called Sec=.
And if you set Sec= on your export,
then you can select Kerbero
as one of the options there.
So the default is still Sec=Sys.
So if you didn't have any security there,
that's the default.
Sys means trust me security.
But you probably want
to use Kerbero security.
So if you use Kerbero,
you can set it up on the Sec= option.
You can also put a list there.
So you can say Sec=KRB5:Sys.
And what the server says
to the client here is,
I prefer you use Kerbero's version 5,
but if you don't support that,
then you can continue to use
the old trust me security.
And this is probably what you want
to set up when you're initially
migrating all of your clients
from Tiger across to Leopard.
You don't want to make it too disruptive.
And at some point in the future,
you just remove the Sys when you
assume everybody's converted over,
and off you go with a
pure Kerbero solution.
So that's the default.
So on the client,
when the client is doing the mount,
there is a sec equals option there too,
but you don't really have to use it.
The good news is that version 3
clients and servers will auto-negotiate
what kind of security they're using.
So if you just go and turn
Kerbero security on on the server
and the client supports it,
then the client will automatically mount,
will do that mount
using Kerbero security.
If you do use that option,
then that's really a way of asserting
what security type you want.
So if the server doesn't support Kerbero
and you use the sec equals Kerb 5 option,
then the mount will fail.
So that's just a way of making
sure that you've got the kind of
security that you think you need.
But in general, you shouldn't really
have to set this option.
You don't have to set it
in your automounter maps or
in your mount command line.
So we understand now that the
Trust Me security really doesn't provide
you any kind of secure authentication.
And with Kerbero's version 5,
we can get secure authentication.
That's really good.
That's a huge step.
But the client and server
have this session key,
and they can use it for other things.
So not only can they use it to digitally
sign the credential on the verifier,
they can use it to digitally sign
the entire NFS request and reply.
So as a result, we get another flavor
of Kerbero security,
and it's KRB5I,
the I's for integrity protection.
So if you turn that on,
then you can send your
NFS data across a network.
It may be a hostile network,
comfortable in the knowledge that
nobody can change your data as it goes
between the client and the server.
And we've actually seen this used
in some networks where there weren't
hostile people in the network,
but there were hostile
routers or hostile networkers,
network routers that were
dropping bits on the way,
and the TCP checksum
wasn't quite up to it,
and we got some data corruption.
So we turned on the Kerbero's
integrity protection,
and that really fixed the problem.
Also with that key, if you're really,
really paranoid, you can use KRB5P,
P for privacy.
And we can use that session key to
encrypt the data going between the client
and the server so that nobody can see it.
So the downside to that is that there
is a performance cost in doing that.
You'll reduce your throughput somewhat,
but that's up to you to pick
the kind of Kerbero security
that you really think you need.
So moving on to deployment,
how do you deploy secure NFS?
If you're already using
Kerbero in your network,
for instance,
if you're using Open Directory,
then your clients will already
have Kerbero's key set up,
because that's what you need
to log into Open Directory.
Then on the server,
all you need to do is just set up those
exports you want with the KRB5 option,
and off you go.
And really,
you have to do nothing on the clients.
If they're Leopard clients,
they will auto-negotiate
that Kerbero security,
so you don't have to do
anything on the clients.
And when the users log
into those clients,
they'll be issued their
Kerbero's keys when they log in.
So deployment's really pretty easy,
as long as you already have
Kerbero set up in your network.
So just to summarize where we are,
we took a quick look at the
TrustMe security that we're
currently using in Tiger.
And we can look forward to the
Kerberos security coming in Leopard,
which will give us some
strong authentication.
That's what we need most.
And kind of as a bonus,
you'll get integrity
protection or privacy,
if you really need it.
It's already quite widely supported.
So if you're using other kinds of
NFS clients and servers in your network,
then we will interoperate with those.
Fairly easy to deploy if
you're already using Kerberos.
And unfortunately,
it's not in the CD that
we gave out the other day.
But it will be in Leopard.
So you can look forward to
Kerberos coming in Leopard.
So to introduce Guy Harris coming next,
and he'll be introducing the new
automounter coming in Leopard.
First question is,
why do we have an automatter?
Well, one thing is to
automatically mount things.
It'll mount remote file systems
on demand when you refer to them,
rather than having to mount a
whole bunch of stuff you may
never use when the system starts.
And you can also use it to provide
a global file system namespace.
You could, for instance,
if you had source code for
a software development shop,
you could have a mount
point called releases.
And under that,
you might have subdirectories
for each release you've put out.
They might be on different servers,
but the clients wouldn't
have to know that.
They go to release 1.0,
and there's the source to 1.0.
So we have a new automounter
that we'll be providing.
It's a modern one, multi-threaded,
more robust, faster,
and it'll be based on
the one in OpenSolaris.
It will do in-place mounting,
none of those symlinks that
trigger the mount that point off
to where it's really mounted.
And you take the path and run it
through real path or any of the
Carbon APIs that use real path.
And you now have something
that won't trigger the mount,
so you have to undo all that,
no more of that.
And it will mount things
from a server one at a time.
If you refer to something from a server,
it's not going to mount everything
from that server all at once.
And here's what the
Tiger Automounter looks like.
It's implemented as an NFS server,
so in the kernel,
you have the NFS client,
and if you refer to something
that's under the automounter,
it will go through the NFS client,
which will talk to one of two
NFS servers that are set up and mounted.
There's the FSTab and
static automounter process,
which gives you things
like network servers,
network applications, network library,
and then there's one for the NSL,
which is used for network browsing.
With Leopard, instead we have a new
in-kernel file system,
AutoFS, based on the Solaris AutoFS,
and references to network servers,
network applications,
or anything else that goes to the
automounter will go through AutoFS,
and that will talk to a
Solaris-derived automount daemon,
but it won't do that on every reference.
It's just when it needs
to mount something,
it talks to the automounter,
but once it's mounted,
the automounter daemon is out of the box.
We also have a daemon called AutoFSd,
which is new.
It listens for network change events
and anything else that would change
what's actually being mounted,
and will run the Solaris-derived
automount command,
which actually mounts the
AutoFS on the desired targets.
We can also run automount
directly from the command line,
but that would mainly
be for testing purposes.
New Automounter will actually be able
to get hold of the Kerbero credentials
of the process doing the mount,
so that requesting the mount,
so that if the mount requires Kerbero
credentials such as an AFP mount,
an SMB mount, or a Kerberized NFS mount,
it will be able to do the mount
with the correct credentials.
It won't mount as guest
or anything like that.
That will work in a GUI session,
but it will also work if you SSH in.
You'll be able to get your AFP mounts
done as you rather than as guest.
The new automatter will support
standard automatter maps,
the RFC 2037-BIS, for those of you who
know what that means.
It's more to the point.
It's compatible with what Linux and
Solaris automatters are using,
so you won't have to take your
automatter maps and do an LDAP dump
and run them through a script
and turn them into text files and
stick them onto your Macs and say,
OK, go mount from this file.
It'll just plug in,
pick up the mounts from your
LDAP or NIST server just as
your other Unix boxes do.
And, after all that,
we're still supporting
the same old stuff.
We have a -fstab and
-static special maps,
and that'll get you to network server,
as well as static mounts
like network library,
network applications.
And we will also support
Solaris' executable maps,
which is something similar to
a CGI script for automounting.
Instead of making a request
to an LDAP or a NIST server to
get the contents of the map,
it will actually pass an
argument to a program.
So you have the executable map,
and that map might be used
for a directory of items.
And if you refer to one of
the items in the directory,
the name of the item in the directory
gets passed to the executable map,
and it looks in whatever data source it's
written to use and returns an indication
of what should be mounted there.
It could be a URL,
it could be a hostname, colon, NFS style,
and it will mount that.
And we've added an extension to that so
that you can actually do browsing on it.
You can say, here's a directory,
what are the names of
all the items in that?
And so there, you pass the executable
map zero arguments,
and that will tell it that just look
in the data source and then print
to the standard output a list of all
the items that are in that directory,
and those will show up in an
LS or in a finder listing.
And here's a quick example
of an automatter map,
that executable map,
that we can use to implement /home,
which is a map that the directories in
/home correspond to the names of users,
and they give you that
user's home directory.
So the first thing the
script does is says,
was I passed zero arguments,
which means it wants a
listing of the users,
in effect.
So it will run LDAP search against
whatever your LDAP server is and say,
dump out all the records for the users,
and then a little bit of sed to convert
that into just the names of the users.
Otherwise, it was given an argument,
and that argument is, in effect,
the name of a user.
And so it'll take that,
it'll do a query of the LDAP server,
and this time it'll say,
show me the entry with
this user's home directory.
So it'll take that user's ID and give
me their home directory property,
and then there's a little bit
of awk that will take that home
directory property and form a
NFS name or URL out of it to say,
go mount this.
And we have a demonstration
of another automatter demo.
[Transcript missing]
Let me just... So we've configured
it to run the new automounter
by setting in /etc/host/config
to set it to automount new,
reboot,
and the new automounter takes over.
From there,
we'll need to configure automounter
then to run our executable map.
So within the automaster file,
which is also in /etc,
you can see the various mappings here
where we map network servers to the
-fs tab that Guy was talking about,
and network public,
which is our executable map,
to auto public.
Now auto public is a script that's
going to discover NFS servers using
Bonjour so that we can have ad hoc NFS.
So you can see the script.
I'll make that a little bit bigger here.
In this case, we've got a Ruby script
that's interacting with,
that's using the DNSSD service
discovery library.
And we walk through,
if there's no arguments passed,
it'll do a listing of all of the
NFS servers on the subnet that
are advertising over Bonjour.
And if it's provided a name,
in the case where you're actually
trying to CD into that directory,
that's when it'll go up and
provide the mount record so
that AutoFS can do the mount.
So we can see that.
And since these are just scripts,
you can just run them
on the command line.
It's just simple text output.
So NFS Server Demo is
this machine over here,
Power Mac G5 running NFS and
advertising its exports over Bunchor.
And the next thing,
if we then run AutoPublic
with passing the--
The name of that server,
we can see that it returns back,
it just returns them out, you know,
simply returns them out record through
standard input to tell us where to mount.
Well, the magic of spaces.
OK, here we go.
How do we get back?
There we go.
So from Finder,
you can see that we click on Public,
and it's done the browsing.
It's found the server demo.
Click on it, mounts it, and boom,
there it is.
Thanks, and back to Guy.
The capabilities that we have
in what's in the WWDC seed,
it can mount NFS and
AFP and SMB with URL equals,
can mount NFS with URL,
as well as mounting NFS with
a standard NFS specifier.
It can read standard
automatter maps from files.
It can read mount records from
NIS or LDAP with FSTab and static.
And NFS home directories work.
They have to work.
That's how I do my work.
Not in the seed, however,
we don't yet support Kerberoz mounts.
So your mounts have to be either NFS or
they have to be guest AFP or SMB mounts.
We don't yet have support for
reading the standard maps.
And you can't log in with
an AFP home directory.
And because its capabilities
are not all there,
it's not the default in the WWDC seed.
So to turn it on,
there's a line in the etc.host
config file that controls whether
the automounter is on or off.
We have a third option.
You find the line that
says automount equals yes,
and you change it to
automount equals new,
all caps new, and then reboot,
and the system will come up with a
new automounter for testing purposes.
When we ship Leopard,
you will not have to do this.
The new automounter will be the default,
and in fact,
it will be the only automounter,
and it will support all the things
that were listed in the top.
And in summary,
it's an auto fast automounter.
It's multi-threaded,
so if it's waiting for
some server to respond,
that doesn't mean that every
single reference to anything
automounted hangs up behind it.
It'll be mounting things in place,
so you won't have to deal with these
symlinks that cause your directory
not to be what you think it is.
No more private automount,
private network.
And in summary,
it's an autofast automounter.
It's multi-threaded,
so if it's waiting for
some server to respond,
that doesn't mean that every
single reference to anything
automounted hangs up behind it.
It'll be mounting things in place,
so you won't have to deal with these
symlinks that cause your directory
not to be what you think it is,
no more private automount,
private network.
The automounter won't be
required to access a file
system once it's been mounted.
Thank you Guy.
Good afternoon.
Let's see if I can get started.
We have many new features
and enhancements coming
in the Leopard release,
and I'd like to go over a
few of those with you today.
We now support Windows 2003
straight out of the box.
What I mean by that is we
support the default security
settings for Windows 2003.
We can now connect using port 445,
so if you're firewall
blocking your net bias ports,
this is no longer a problem for us as
we can still connect to your servers.
We've added SMB signing,
which prevents man-in-the-middle attacks
and gives you message authentication.
The Leopard client will automatically
use signing if required to by the server.
Should be a note here that
there is a performance impact
when using SMB signing.
And all of this is in
your Leopard Seed today,
so you can try it out.
We now can reconnect with SMB.
Anytime you have a connection failure,
SMB will automatically attempt
to reconnect to the server.
Once the connect/reconnect
gets established,
SMB will then attempt to reestablish
the state to what it was before
the connection went down.
This should be a big boost for home
directory users who hopefully won't even
notice they had a connection failure.
We will no longer prevent your
systems from going to sleep.
In previous releases,
if you had an SMB volume mounted,
we wouldn't allow your machines
to go to sleep automatically.
This is due to the fact that
we didn't support reconnects.
All of this is also in your Leopard Seed.
We don't have support for
Kerbero's reconnects currently,
but we will have them before we ship.
It is our goal to make SMB work
and behave more like AFP.
In that vein,
we have added better Carbon, Cocoa,
and POSIX application support.
We now support open-deny modes
and mandatory byte range locking.
This should allow Office and
other applications to work
more like they do with AFP.
You can now rename or
delete an open file.
This is needed by many applications,
but especially by Cocoa and
POSIX applications.
So hopefully they'll work a little bit
better when dealing with SMB volumes.
We have better finder interoperability.
We now support create times,
and we have more accurate modified times.
Previous releases,
the modified times were
on a two-second interval.
They are now on nanoseconds.
A lot of applications require
accurate modified times,
and you might have noticed this if you
played around with the finder in SMB.
We now support the finder lock bit,
and we map the Windows hidden
bit to the finder invisible bit.
We have complete Dropbox support now.
The Dropbox may reside
on a Macintosh server,
a Windows server, or any Samba server.
If your server is using
the Access Control List,
then your user will need to traverse,
create,
and write privileges on that Dropbox.
If your server is doing POSIX permission,
then your user will need to write and
execute privileges to that Dropbox.
We now have full Macintosh
file name support.
We can do this because we are now
mapping the Windows Reserve characters.
So, any file name that can reside on
your local file system can now reside
and be used on your SMB volume.
And I know that one works
and it's in your seed.
SMB is now working and behaving
more and more like AFP,
but you know what?
With all these things that we've added,
there still seems to
be one thing missing.
I'm not sure what that is.
Oh yeah, we have one more thing.
We still have those
silly .underbar files,
don't we?
Not anymore.
We're blowing them away in Leopard.
No more dot under bar files with SMB.
Any server-- well, skip, sorry.
Getting ahead of myself.
We currently now support Microsoft's
NTFS stream for client and the server.
So any system that says they support
streams no longer will need ._files.
It is also our goal to work with all
systems that say they support streams.
Currently, the services for Macintosh
streams are fully supported.
We treat all other streams
as extended attributes.
There is a size limit
to an extended adder,
so this might cause some
issues with some streams.
We have a one-to-one name mapping
between extended attributes and streams.
We've added stream support
to the Samba server,
so both the client and the server
will be doing this name mapping.
All of this code will be
given back to the community,
so hopefully other vendors can take
these extensions and implement them.
For FAT file systems,
and this will include your Tiger servers,
the Leopard client will automatically
revert back to using ._files,
the same as your Tiger clients.
So it's just something to be aware of.
We do have something for upgrading.
The .clean tool will convert .underbar
files to their native storage format.
You can run the .clean tool
against any local folder or volume.
Do not run the .clean tool against any
folder or volume being exported by NFS.
NFS still uses ._ files and
converting them might cause
you some unneeded problems.
If you have a non-Macintosh
file system out there,
the Leopard Client can help
you with this conversion.
Just mount the volume with your
Leopard Client and then run the .clean
tool against the mounted volume.
You should make sure that no other users
are using that volume at the same time.
And now,
Rusty is going to come up and show you a
quick demo of the .clean tool in action.
[Transcript missing]
All right, so a lot of you have seen
this kind of display.
You have a SMB client
connect to your server,
copies a bunch of files in there,
maybe fonts like this.
And from Finder,
instead of seeing font files,
you see a lot of things that
look like UNIX executable files.
The reason being for that is
that rather than the-- got to
get to the right directory.
that a lot of the important information
from those files is missing,
at least from Finder's perspective.
It's expected to find it
in the native location,
in the Finder info,
as part of extended attributes,
or in the resource fork.
But in this case, it's set aside.
In the separate .underbar
file that you can see here,
we can list on the command line,
you can see those files that
are invisible from Finder.
They actually have all of the size.
In a lot of these cases,
the entire data of these font
files is kept in the resource work,
so that's where all the information is.
So what we want to do is fix
that up so that when you're
running your Leopard SMB client,
It's not going to know what to
do with these things either.
So run .clean.
Specify the directory you
want to clean up and bam,
just like that, it goes through,
iterates through that
entire directory hierarchy.
and recovers all the information that
was lost in the .underbar file and
gets it back into the native location.
And again,
that'll be something you'll want
to do not during the upgrade,
but after you've migrated
to Leopard Clients.
Thanks.
Back to George.
Okay, now when you have multiple
different types of clients
accessing your Leopard server,
things are going to be simpler and
more reliable than ever before.
Leopard and Windows clients will
automatically use streams without any
configuration needed on any of your part.
Tiger clients won't need
any configuration either.
That's because the Leopard
Sandbook server is automatically
going to convert your ._ files
to their native storage format.
AFP and SMB, and this will include
your Windows clients,
will all now be able to share the same
storage and work seamlessly together
without any hassles or problems.
If you have a Windows server that
has an NTFS volume it's sharing,
you're going to have to turn the streams
option on for your Lepre clients.
There's two ways of doing this.
One is to create a special file
on the top level of the share,
and I'm not going to read it,
on top level of that share,
and all your Lepre clients,
when they access that share,
will automatically use streams.
The second method is to edit
the client's configuration file.
This will cause that client to
use streams on any share it comes
to that says it supports streams.
All modern Windows clients
automatically use streams,
so there's no configuration
needed on their part.
If you have a Tiger client
in this environment,
we recommend that you either
leave streams turned off,
use some third-party product,
or preferably just switch
to using a Leopard server.
In this environment,
we have a Windows 2003 server,
a Leopard server,
and a variety of clients accessing it.
They can all share the same storage.
You can copy data from
one server to the other.
So you can take a Services for Macintosh
volume running on your Windows box,
copy that data to your Leopard server,
turn Services for Macintosh off,
and all your clients will be able to
access that native storage as if it
was natively stored there all along.
You can move data between clients,
and all the data stays together.
That's because the finder information,
the resource fork,
the extended attributes,
and the data fork are all
part of the same file.
So you can move it from
one system to the other,
from one server to the other,
and never lose any valuable information.
SMB has now become a first-class
citizen on the Macintosh.
To review,
we now support Windows 2003 and ReConnex.
We have better Carbon, Cocoa,
and POSIX application support.
We interop with the Finder better.
We support Dropbox.
We now have full Macintosh
file name support,
and the last little thing there,
we now support Streams.